# Exercises 8

**This week's topic: Introduction to PHP.**

1. Implement a function that calculates the factorial of a given integer using a.) loop and b.) recursion. (What happens if the parameter is not an integer?)
2. Display the text **Hello world!** with smaller and smaller headings (from h1 to h6).
3. You are given an array of numbers. Select the even numbers and calculate their square.
4. When it comes to array functions, PHP has its replacements for JavaScript's `map`, `filter` and `reduce`˙functions, but it does not have a built-in equivalent for `every` or `some`. Let's create the `array_every` function which receives an array and a function (callable), and returns whether the callable is `true` for every element of the array. Solve the task in two ways: using a `foreach` loop and using iterator functions.
5. You are given an array of error messages. Display the errors as an unordered list (`ul` element).
6. Let's create a quiz system. The list of questions, the possible answers (which each have a letter or number) and the letter/number of the correct answer are stored in a variable. Let's generate an HTML form which shows the question, the possible answers with radio buttons and has the correct answer's radio button already selected.
7. In a student register, we store the name, Neptun ID, year of birth and gender of each student. Solve the following tasks:
    - Create the data structure and fill it with some students.
    - Display the student register as a table.
    - Get the name of the oldest student.
    - If the oldest student was born before 1970, also display the text: *true believer of lifelong learning*.
    - Decide whether there are females among the students.
    - Show the number of boys and girls as two bars.