# Exercises 1

**This week's topic: JavaScript basics, arrays and objects.**

## Basic syntax

1. Transform the following pseudocode into a proper JavaScript function.

```
function gcd(a, b: integer): integer
    if a < b then swap(a, b)
    rem = a mod b
    while rem > 0
        a := b
        b := rem
        rem := a mod b
    endwhile
    gcd := b
endfunction
```

## Array functions

Complete the following exercises **using array functions!** (Your most useful tools are `map`, `filter`, `reduce`, `every` and `some`.)

2. Generate an array which contains the cube of every element in a given array of numbers.

3. Generate an array where every element of a given input array is increased by its position in the original array.

4. Count the number of vowels in a string.

5. Calculate the SUM of an array containing numbers. (Make sure the result is 0 if the array is empty.)

6. Find the largest number in an array using *reduce*. (Recreate *Math.max* with an array parameter. What should it return when the array is empty?)

7. Decide (using 3 different array functions) if a given array contains any negative numbers.

8. Decide whether every element of a matrix is even. (One possible solution: it would be nice if we could somehow linearize the matrix.)

## Objects

9. Store the following data as an array of objects and use the resulting data structed in the following exercises.

| Name        | Neptun      | GPA         |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Jan Kowalski | F3S5K2 | 2.04 |
| Petar Petrovic | K91FFG | 4.37 |
| Yamada Hanako | UWU431 | 5.00 |

10. What is the GPA of the worst student?

11. Return the object that contains all the information about the worst student!

12. What is the average of the GPAs?