# Exercises 5

**This week's topic: using our existing knowledge to create something more complex, a fully playable memory game.**

1. When the page is loaded, show a number input and a button. (You may also place other decorative/static elements, such as `span`s, `div`s or even an empty `table` tag for the game board itself.)
2. When the button is clicked, check whether the input field contains an **even integer** from 2 to 10. If not, display a big red error message on the page and do not continue.
3. If the number matches the above conditions, create a matrix of size `NxN` (where `N` is the entered number) and randomly fill it with every number from `1` to `N^2/2` **twice**. (One possible strategy is to place the numbers in their natural order (1, 1, 2, 2, etc.) to a randomly chosen coordinate if it's empty.)
4. Once the matrix has been generated, show an empty table of size `NxN` on the page. Also make sure that the input field and the button aren't visible anymore.
5. When any table cell is clicked: show the corresponding number from the matrix in that cell.
6. After two **different** cells have been clicked, decide of the numbers in them match. If they don't, wait for a third click and make both cells empty again.
7. If the numbers in the two cells match, change the font color of both cells and leave their contents. The player can start clicking another cell now to find the next pair. (Hint: make sure that the numbers don't disappear if the player accidentally clicks a solved cell later.)
8. The game is over once the player finds every pair of numbers. When this happens, show a message explaining that the player has won, and make the input and button reappear so they can start a new game. (Hint: make sure the reinitialization actually works properly.)
9. Also show how many seconds have elapsed when the game is over.
10. Show the time continously during the game in `mm:ss` format.