# Exercises 3

**This week's topic: complex event handling (event parameters and delegation)**

**Hint:** Since there are several tasks in this sheet, during which you have to click on the entire area of ​​the page or more elements of the same type have to work, it might be worthwhile to create separate HTML and JS files for each exercise!

1. Let's create a page that displays how much time has passed between the last two clicks and how many pixels the cursor has moved! The text of the document should initially indicate that it is waiting for the first click, then the second, and then the display should be updated with the requested data for each subsequent click!

2. Create a page with an unordered list with at least five different items, then get the text to be swapped by clicking on two list items! After that, you have to click twice again for the next exchange.

3. Make a table on the page! If you point to a row in the table, the background color of the row will change! (Of course, if we get off the row, then change back to the original!)

4. Let's make a simple pixel graphic drawing program using a table! At startup, please enter the width and height of the drawing canvas, then generate a table of this size! After that, by clicking on individual cells of the table, add the value of a specific color input to the background of the cell! You can also draw by holding down the mouse button!

5. Let's make a Tic-Tac-Toe game! For this, you will need a 3x3 table (preferably with borders), whose cells are clicked to place X and O marks alternately. A sign can only be placed in an empty cell, and only if there is no winner of the game yet! Display the winner of the game below the board! (It can be useful to know in which cell we clicked: use `parentElement.rowIndex` and `cellIndex`. Feel free to store the game board for easier lookup.)

6. The page should initially have only one button labeled *new window*, which when clicked, creates a new `div` in a random place on the page, which has a thick border and a fixed size (e.g. 200x300 pixels is suitable). Click on any window (`div`), its border should change color and move with the cursor until the mouse button is released! (Hint: `mousedown, mouseup, mousemove` events!)