# Exercises 7

**This week's topic: drawing, animation and gameplay using a JavaScript driven Canvas element.**

1. Create the following (not very artistic) drawing using basic canvas operations.
2. Create the `polygon(n,a)` function that draws a regular polygon with `n` sides and a side length of `a`! (Hint: Applying the principles of Imagine/Comenius Logo's turtle graphics, the task is easy. Let's implement a virtual turtle whose position and direction we always know, and which can move forward and turn!)
3. Let's create a snail race simulation! There should be two snails on the screen, one below the other, slowly moving towards a target line (edge of the canvas)! One snail moves at a constant speed of $v_1 = 10$ pixels/s, while the other, starting from rest, accelerates uniformly with an acceleration of $a_1 = 10$ pixels/$\mathrm{s}^2$. Which one will reach 500 pixels first? In the document, let's show how long it took for both snails to make the journey as captions written on canvas!
4. Let's make a Flappy Bird-like game! On the left edge of the screen/canvas, there should be a bird falling at a uniformly accelerating speed. This bird rises a little when you press a button, thus avoiding the obstacles that periodically approach it.
   1. Let's make a 600x400 pixel canvas with a blue background!
   2. Draw the bird as a brown rectangle, initially vertically in the middle, 50 pixels from the left edge of the left track!
   3. Let's create an object in which we store the bird's data! (Where is it? How tall/wide? What is its vertical velocity and acceleration?)
   4. Let the bird fall down with an accelerating movement (e.g. $a_y = 200$ px/$\mathrm{s}^2$)! Press the spacebar to change the speed of the bird to a fixed value pointing upwards, but make sure that it never leaves the top of the screen when moving!
   5. Let's also introduce some constants, e.g. the vertical gap between columns (to fly through) should be 150 pixels, the movement speed of the columns should be -200 px, the horizontal distance between the columns should be 300 px.
   6. The columns are stored in an array! (Justification: there can be several columns on the screen at the same time.) The columns are added in pairs: there is a lower and an upper part. Properties of a part: Where is it and how big is it? Let's draw each column as a white rectangle.
   7. Whenever the last column has moved a sufficient distance from the right edge of the canvas (or there is no column at the beginning of the game), generate a new pair of columns, where there is a gap of fixed size between the two columns at a random height! (Unnecessary columns that have already disappeared from the visible area should be deleted in the meantime.)
   8. Let's examine each column to see if the bird collides with it! If so, it's game over. Also, the game can end if the bird falls out of the screen at the bottom.
   9. Always make a note and make it visible on the screen, how many gaps the player has already flown through!